---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

**`Git/Github Adventure`**

&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;

**`1. My Experience with the Git Activity that I Did in Class`**  
Comment on your experience with the Git activity that you did in class today. Was it useful? Was it confusing? Did you have time to finish? Did you have merge conflicts? Were you able to resolve them?

&nbsp;
&nbsp;

**`2. My Reactions to This Reading`**  
What are your reactions to the above on-line readings. Pick one or two that made an impression on you and articulate your thoughts about them.

&nbsp;
&nbsp;

**`3. What I Edited To a Classmate's Blog Post Following the Procedure Described in the Blog Editing Activity`**

| Opening an Issue | Issue | Description |
|:---|:---|:---|
| [Toby Au](https://hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019.github.io/tobyau-weekly/) | LinkdIn/Github URLs #1 | Clicked the Linkedin and Github icons on the bottom of your blog, but they don't work properly. |


- Blog Author
- Issue
- Description
Resolving Issues and Submitting Pull Requests
- Fork a copy of _Shakespear_'s repository
- Clone this fok to your local machine
- Make whatever changes you think are necessary to the blog post in your cloned copy
4. When you think that a particular change is good and complete, stage it using the git add command,
and commit the staged change with a good commit message, using the git commit command.
5. Repeat the preceding instruction for each independent change that you make. If there are multiple
mistakes that you are trying to x, or improvements that you are trying to make, each should have
its own commit with a distinct and descriptive commit message. This way it is easier to keep track of
what was done, and to accept or reject them independently.
6. When you are all nished with these changes, you are ready to push them to your upstream fork of
Shakespeare's repository. 1
7. Push your changes to your remote using the git push command.
8. You are now ready to issue a pull request. Open the GitHub page with your fork of Shakespeare's
repository. Click on the gray button labeled New Pull Request. GitHub will display a page with
the heading Comparing changes.
(a) If you are able to merge your changes into Shakespeare's repository, you will see some green text
stating, Able to merge :

Closing Issues
&nbsp;
&nbsp;
&nbsp;

**`What I Have Done This Week`**
- Collaborated with others on a Shared Project
  - What is a workflow?
  - How can I collaborate with others on the same project using a shared remote repositoty?
  - How can I work in git on my local machine and synchronize my work with collaborators using GitHub?
- Read articles
  - [A Beginner's Very Bumpy Journy Through The World of Open Source](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-beginners-very-bumpy-journey-through-the-world-of-open-source-4d108d540b39/)
  - [7 Things That Make a Great open Source Contributions](https://blog.newrelic.com/engineering/open-source-contribution/)
  - [How to Contribute to Open Source](https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/)
- Read the [Blog Editing Activity](http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/csci395.86/activities_f19/blog_editing_activity.pdf) which contains the detailed instruction for how I should edit my classmates' blogs
  - Read chapters Git Basics and Git Branching from the Pro Git book
- Continued to edit OpenStreetMap
- Collaborated on Remote Projects
  
