---
layout: post
title: Week 15
---

# Open Source Definitions and Concepts
### The four freedoms defined by Richard Stallman and the FSF 
A program is free software if the program's users have the four essential freedoms:
1. The freedom to run the program as you wish, for any purpose 
2. The freedom to study how the program works, and change it so it does your computing as you wish (Access to the source code is a precondition for this) . 
3. The freedom to redistribute copies so you can help others  
4. The freedom to distribute copies of your modified versions to others (By doing this you can give the whole community a chance to benefit from your changes. Access to the source code is a precondition for this)  

<br>

### The 18 'aphorisms' described by Eric Raymond in his book, __The Cathedral and the Bazaar__
1. Every good work of software starts by scratching a developer's personal itch.  
2. Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse).  
3. ``Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow.'' (Fred Brooks, The Mythical Man-Month, Chapter 11)  
4. If you have the right attitude, interesting problems will find you.  
5. When you lose interest in a program, your last duty to it is to hand it off to a competent successor.  
6. Treating your users as co-developers is your least-hassle route to rapid code improvement and effective debugging.  
7. Release early. Release often. And listen to your customers.  
8. Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone.  
9. Smart data structures and dumb code works a lot better than the other way around.  
10. If you treat your beta-testers as if they're your most valuable resource, they will respond by becoming your most valuable resource.  
11. The next best thing to having good ideas is recognizing good ideas from your users. Sometimes the latter is better.  
12. Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong.  
13. ``Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away.''  
14. Any tool should be useful in the expected way, but a truly great tool lends itself to uses you never expected.  
15. When writing gateway software of any kind, take pains to disturb the data stream as little as possible-and never throw away information unless the recipient forces you to!  
16. When your language is nowhere near Turing-complete, syntactic sugar can be your friend.  
17. A security system is only as secure as its secret. Beware of pseudo-secrets.  
18. To solve an interesting problem, start by finding a problem that is interesting to you.  

<br>
<br>

# Intellectural Property Rights and Licences

### Definitions of copyleft, permissive licenses, public domain, and fair use
- **Copyright**  
Copyright limits a user's ability to modify, re-use, share, or copy content  
  
- **Copyleft**  
  Copyleft, distinguished from copyright, is the practice of offering people the right to freely distribute copies and modified versions of a work with the stipulation that the same rights be preserved in derivative works created later.[1] Copyleft software licenses are considered protective or reciprocal, as contrasted with permissive free-software licenses.[2]
  저작권과 구별되는 카피 레프트 (Copyleft)는 사람들에게 사본과 수정 된 버전의 저작물을 자유롭게 배포 할 수있는 권리를 부여하는 관행입니다. 카피 레프트 소프트웨어 라이센스는 허용되는 자유 소프트웨어 라이센스와 달리 보호 적이거나 상호적인 것으로 간주됩니다. [2]  

- **Permissive Licenses**  
   permissive software license, sometimes also called BSD-like or BSD-style license, is a free-software license with minimal requirements about how the software can be redistributed. Examples include the GNU All-permissive License, MIT License, BSD licenses, Apple Public Source License and Apache license.  
   
- **Public Domain**  
  Certain content is in the Public Domain, which means you may use it however you'd like without even attributing the author. Content is in the public domain either because it was created a long time ago and the author is now deceased, or because the author specifically chose to make their work available in the public domain.  
  
- **Fair Use**  
  Fair use is the right to use copyrighted material without permission or payment in a certain limited capacity, depending on a wide range of circumstances. It can be very complicated to determine if your use of a piece of content falls under fair use rules. We recommend that if you are going to share materials you create with the public, you do not reproduce copyrighted material.
  
<br>

### The gist of the Mozilla, GPLv3, MIT, and Apache licenses, how they differ, and what they permit and do not permit
[Which License Should I Use? MIT vs. Apache vs. GPL](https://exygy.com/which-license-should-i-use-mit-vs-apache-vs-gpl/)

The MIT, BSD, and ISC licenses are “permissive licenses”. They are extremely short and essentially say “do whatever you want with this, just don’t sue me.”
The Apache license says “do whatever you want with this, just don’t sue me” but does so with many more words, which lawyers like because it adds specificity. It also contains a patent license and retaliation clause which is designed to prevent patents (including patent trolls) from encumbering the software project.
The GPL licenses (GPLv3, GPLv2, LGPL, Affero GPL) all contain some kind of share-alike license. They essentially say “if you make a derivative work of this, and distribute it to others under certain circumstances, then you have to provide the source code under this license.” The important thing to know here is that “derivative work” and “certain circumstances” both require some legal analysis to understand the meaning and impact for your project.  

- The MIT License  
  The main argument for MIT or any other permissive license over GPL is that more people may end up using your software. Even if all of the downstream user-developers don’t open-source their contributions, many of them will. There are non-legal reasons for others to contribute, the main one being that if they don’t, they either have to fork (foregoing improvements on the trunk) or maintain a closed-source branch and keep integrating changes from the open-source mainline.   

- The Apache License  
  The Apache license has a similar philosophy to the MIT, but uses more words. The wordiness creates greater specificity about contributors’ obligations, which might help in a dispute.  But it also can be a turnoff — “Do I need to have my lawyer look at this?” comes up more with Apache than MIT. It works well for organizations or projects that are larger and managing more contributors, but don’t care about others commercializing the work. It also can help bring on board organizations that are more concerned about software patents or patent trolls.  

- The GPL Licenses  
  The GPL has name recognition. Developers like it out of a sense of fairness (“I open sourced my code so you should too”). Some of the most-installed open source software is GPL-licensed, such as Linux, WordPress, and Wikipedia’s underlying software, MediaWiki. Wikipedia’s content is (mostly) under the Creative Commons BY-SA license, which has similar share-alike features to the GPL. For individual contributors who want assurances of openness and transparency, and to avoid a BSD-into-OSX situation, the GPL provides assurance that other contributors will be held to the same licensing terms. While the GPL can be a turnoff for some corporations, it can create community among individuals.  

- Mozilla Licenses  
  The Mozilla Public License (MPL) is a free and open source software license developed and maintained by the Mozilla Foundation.[7] It is a weak copyleft license, characterized as a middle ground between permissive free software licenses and the GNU General Public License (GPL), that seeks to balance the concerns of proprietary and open source developers.[8] As such, it allows re-licensing. MPL software can thus be converted into a copyleft license such as the GPL, or to a proprietary license (example:KaiOS).
  
<br>
<br>

# Open Source Business Models
### The five business models described in [Musings on Open Source Software Business Models](https://spot.livejournal.com/327801.html)

1. Consultancies  
These companies build open source solutions for their customers on contract, often around existing open source technologies. Examples of this model are Igalia, Collabora, Open Source Consulting Group, but other companies often have open source consulting offerings in addition to their primary business model.  

2. Subscription Offerings  
Every piece of code that these companies produce is open source. Usually, these offerings target technologies and solutions for Enterprise use cases (Server OS, Cloud, Middleware, Storage, Virtualization, Containers). Companies here sell customers annual subscriptions which provide support, updates, and access to all current binary releases of the software. Source is available to everyone. Customers do not pay for “right to use”. Examples of this model are Red Hat, WSO2, OpenNMS, Heptio (now VMware), Hortonworks (now Cloudera), Canonical, Univention  

1. Donation model  
These companies solicit (but do not require) donations for download of their open source offerings, and/or sell branded goods to support themselves. In some cases, they sell “boxed” offerings of their software. Examples of this model are Elementary, Mozilla.  

2. Open Core  
Pivotal is an excellent example here, where the core codebase (Cloud Foundry) is open source, but their main product offering in the space (Pivotal Cloud Foundry) adds proprietary software. The purpose of the proprietary software is to improve the usability of the open source “core”, and the business model is structured around the belief that customers want to use the “core” but get value from the usability wrapper. In other cases, there is a proprietary fork of an open source core, which contains extra features not found in the “core”.  

There are quite a few examples of companies with this business model, a long list of them can be found here: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/17nKMpi_Dh5slCqzLSFBoWMxNvWiwt2R-t4e_l7LPLhU/edit#gid=0  

3. Software as a Service (SaaS)  
Companies which offer open source software services running on their infrastructure. These can be pure open source offerings, but more commonly, they are open core offerings, built on an open source core, but with proprietary feature extensions. An example of this model is Fastly, though, it is common for open core companies to have SaaS offerings as well.  

4. Peace of Mind  
This one is brand new, created by Tidelift, where the idea is that companies can pay them to act as an intermediary to the open source projects that they consume (mostly in the web framework space). They then sponsor and support those community projects so that they remain healthy and useful for their customers.  

5. FUD  
This model assumes that your customers need to be afraid of your open source code, and that their fear, uncertainty, and doubt (aka FUD) will result in them buying a “commercial” proprietary license for that code. This is MongoDB’s new plan, via the SSPL. The SSPL says that if you use code under that license in certain situations, you will have to release every other component connected to it under that license as well. The fact that this may not be practical or possible, well, not their problem, I guess open source is just too risky for you, would you like to buy a proprietary license from us instead and resolve all that bother? While FUD is not new, applying FUD to your own products is… a bold strategy.  
