---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---

### In-class Activities
Day 23. Thursday, November 18: More Linux Followed by a Work Sprint
Overview:	Learning more about filters in Linux, followed by work on issues and contributionsWe spend a short while on Linux 

Day 24. Monday, November 25: An Assessment Followed by a Work Sprint
Overview:	A short assessment on selected aspects of Git and some Linux, followed by work on issues and contributions

### Blog
- Would you want to work in a company that only produced open source software? Why or why not? What would your dream job be? How would you like to see the business of software production in ten years?
- There are no new blog requests for the week ending 12/04. Make sure to chronicle your progress, and update your contributions.

### Assignments
- [x] Read the article about [Humanitarian open source projects](https://opensource.com/tags/humanitarian) - [Bringing Raspberry Pi to schools in Tanzania](https://opensource.com/education/16/6/interview-janice-lathen-powering-potential)  
  
This project helps african strudents to have an opportunity to study by providing appropriate supports like computer, computer education, educational softwares, solar power to solve the problem of lack of electricity, management system, etc. I really like this project.
    
I heard that my country was the poorest country back in the days and we are not now. 

"After the Korean war in 1953, South Korea became one of the world's poorest countries with only $64 per capita income." Now, "the economy of South Korea is the 4th largest in Asia and the 11th largest in the world. South Korea is known for its spectacular rise from one of the poorest countries in the world to a developed, high-income country in just a few generations. This economic growth is called by some a miracle, and described as the Miracle on the Han River,[19] which has brought South Korea to the ranks of elite countries in the OECD and the G-20."

We believe that this was possible because we put education is first. The country didn't have natural resources. Only thing we could do was studying for the better future. I know there are some places in a situation what we've been gone though. And catching up is getting harder and harder. However, I still believe education would be the ultimate solution for anything and what this project is doing right now can be easily adopted to those place with a little bit of help. Bilding a school and to maintain it is very hard task. And this project used open source projects wisely to solve the problem. There are many learning resources in the internet, but to get this point students need computers and that is not cheap. So, they used rasberry pi. Electricity is another problem, and they solved it with solor power. I think as an asian, language is another barrier to access to those free learning resources. Because there are many useful resources mainly provided in English. However, besides of that, this project is really good example and I hope I can use their case to help my neighbor countries in the closer future. Especially, my husband's country - the philippines. 

- [x] Read the article by Tom Callaway about business models in open source, [Musings on Open Source Software Business Models](https://spot.livejournal.com/327801.html)  

I am glad to know what kind of business model open source projects might have by reading this article. It would've been better article, if it gave more specific examples. It mentioned some companies like Red Hat and MongoDB, but I couldn't get the full idea how to apply this to the beggining stage of any companies. So, these models are based on the assumption that there are certain number of customers use that open source softwares. All the open source companies began without thinking of making any revenues, then once it gets popular which needs some management and has potential to apply business model, then that's how the company can be?

- [x] Read [8 advantages of using open source in the enterprise](https://enterprisersproject.com/article/2015/1/top-advantages-open-source-offers-over-proprietary-solutions)  

The article describes some benefits of using open source for the business. 
  
**1. Flexibility and Agility**  
  If the business want something else, then they can either find another solution or even make their own. It is open source.  
  
**2. Speed** / **3. Cost-effectiveness** / **4. Ability to start small**  
  The business can be started right away without handling licensing issues. Start small, and fast. If the business keep growing, and need support. There will be support, for example, Red Hat.  
  
**5. Solid Information Security** 

6. Attract Better Talent
7. Share Maintenance Costs
8. The Future
