---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---


`What have done this week`

Thursday, September 12: Beyond Open Source Software
Background:	Open Source software's principles generalized: The Open Source Way
1. An explanation of the Open Source Way:
https://opensource.com/open-source-way
2. Examples of "Open Source" beyond software:
Open data, open hardware, open government, open education
Wikipedia, OpenStreetMap
In-Class Activity: OpenStreetMap Editing
Follow the instructions given in OpenStreetMap Editing Instructions and complete the interactive OpenStreetMap editing tutorial. Then try to complete at least one edit to the map.

Assignment due 09/18:
Read the Getting Started chapter in the Pro Git book, including the section on installing Git, and read the second chapter, Git Basics, up to and including the section, Recording Changes to the Repository.
If Git is not installed on your computing device (e.g., laptop, desktop) then install it there. You can look up how to do this in the Pro Git book or on-line.
Configure Git following the instructions in "First-Time Git Setup" in the Pro Git book.
Blog Week 3 (ending 09/18):
The course web page has links to many on-line resources. Look at this one in particular:

https://www.techrepublic.com/blog/10-things/10-things-you-should-know-about-open-source-before-you-use-it/

Some of the ten statements discussed in this short article are things you might have thought before you took this course, and some you still might not have realized. In your blog for Week 3, write about what you have learned so far with respect to these statements. For example, did you know that it is not always free of cost? Try to be specific and try to give examples.
