---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

**`Bloomberg LP's Open Source Involvement & Progress on the Issue`**

### Summary of This Week
- **Thursday, November 7: Kevin Fleming spoke about Open Source at Bloomberg LP**  
_“Kevin Fleming works with various teams in Bloomberg to help produce and support its open source software, used by its customers and partners to integrate with the Bloomberg Professional service.”_ 

  On November 7, Kevin Fleming came and told us about open source at the Bloomberg LP. I am always excited to hear(listen to) the working stories from the people who currently working in the tech field. It gave me an clear insight out of the knowledge from the textbooks. I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to the professor who made this happening.
 
- **Monday, November 11: Continuation of the Linux Commands Tutorial**    
  On November 11, the class continued the Linux tutorial. It helped me to expand my knowledge in Linux commands which was very limited. It was helpful to understand the presentation by seeing the implementations directly through the terminal right after reading the presentation. There is a homework, which is personally welcome.
 
&nbsp;
&nbsp;

### Bloomberg LP and Factset involvement is Open Source 
- Bloomberg LP and FactSet are both finance companies and use the Open Source Program. Both are Takers, as well as Givers who participate in Open Source. FactSet, however, is passively encouraged by employees to be involved in open source community, while Bloomberg LB contrasts the positive aspects of having a team that contributes to open source throughout the day and even a separate event to encourage public participation. It can be checked simply by looking at the two companies' GitHub repositories-FactSet GitHub and Bloomberg GitHub. If FactSet's last contribution is early this year and is related to one of the top projects, Bloomberg LP is making a significant contribution to many projects a day, and some of the projects heavy contributions coming from the Bloomberg's employees. I was wondering why the companies started to get involved in Open Source, but I was able to infer the answer by looking through the various articles.  

_❝Bloomberg LP figured this out through a time-and-resource draining exercise readers are likely familiar with: building a data-science platform.
The company built the platform roughly two years ago. Once it was ready for prime-time, the ingredients inside had gone stale. The technologies had advanced forward in open-source communities. The company vowed that this wouldn't happen again.❝_ - [It's not what IT used to be: Inside Bloomberg's open-source IT shop by R.DANES](https://siliconangle.com/2018/12/14/its-not-what-it-use-to-be-inside-bloombergs-open-source-it-shop-kubecon/)


 
  The two companies' visits show me how important and practical the open source projects are.

&nbsp;
&nbsp;

### Continue to chronicle your progress on the issue(s) you are working on.

- Translated 52 lines so far out of 528 lines in [how-to-setup-freecodecamp-locally.md](https://github.com/nancydocode/freeCodeCamp/blob/how-to-setup-freecodecamp-locally.md/docs/i18n-languages/korean/how-to-setup-freecodecamp-locally.md)

&nbsp;
&nbsp;

### Assignments  
- Wikipedia Contributions
  - Added a page about [Bakridamae](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bakridamae)
  - Corrected the producer name from Lim Syd to Lim Seung-yong in [Oldboy(2003)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oldboy_(2003_film))  
  
- Read [System76 introduces laptops with open source BIOS coreboot](https://opensource.com/article/19/11/coreboot-system76-laptops?utm_campaign=intrel)  
  
  The article is announcing the release of two computers with open source firmware. These products solved with open-source community's help the problem that the firmware was closed source even if the operating system was open source. This is meaningful in that the large company has freed users from the end products created by randomly selecting what they needed, giving them the freedom to look and change computer from A to Z if needed. I think it would be a challenge to expand the community to make it easier for people who are not familiar with the code.  
  
- Read [Open Firmware](https://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2019/10/239673-open-source-firmware/fulltext) by Jessie Frazelle, to understand the issue more clearly. To quote the author, "The goal of this article is to provide some insight into what is being built with open source firmware and why making firmware open source is so important."
  
  I was wondering why it was important to open-source the firmware as I read the first article, but the second article deals with it and it feels like it scratches the itch. I am currently taking an operating system class and it makes the article easier to understand. In the first class, I heard that personal computers are vulnerable to security, and I understood the article that open-source firmware was important to compensate for this. However, it seems like a good way for users to fix bugs themselves. On the contrary, it is easy to hack because it is open source. is not it? I wonder if it doesn't matter because the community is so active that it can be responded immediately.
  
<!-- Next Week
- Do all of the exercises from the slide Exercises 1 in the Linux Tutorial. I have created private repositories on GitHub for each of you, named with your username and linux-activities. Within that repository, put your solutions in the directory linux_hwk1. Name the file in that directory exercise-set-1.  [nancydocode-linux-activities](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/nancydocode-linux-activities)
-->
